DOC: Proofread L2TPv3.rst (#1762)
vyos/vyos-documentation: docs/configuration/interfaces/l2tpv3.rst

:lastproofread: 2026-02-05

.. _l2tpv3-interface:

######
L2TPv3
######    

:abbr:`L2TPv3 (Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol version 3)` interfaces let you 
establish L2TPv3 tunnels to transport Layer 2 traffic over IP networks. To 
encapsulate data for transmission, they leverage the L2TPv3 protocol. As 

> defined in :rfc:`3931`, this protocol wraps Layer 2 frames (e.g., Ethernet, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
establish L2TPv3 tunnels to transport Layer 2 traffic over IP networks. As 
```

That phrase is completely redundant. What protocol would interfaces called L2TPv3 use, other than L2TPv3 — hypertext teapot control protocol? ;)

Author: Removed.

Frame Relay, and HDLC) within IP packets, allowing them to traverse the 
underlying IP infrastructure.

Unlike L2TPv2, which strictly requires UDP encapsulation, the L2TPv3 protocol 
is more flexible and supports two encapsulation types:

 * **Direct IP:** Tunnel data is encapsulated directly inside IP packets 
   (Protocol 115) for lower overhead.
 * **UDP:** Tunnel data is encapsulated inside a UDP header before being placed 

>    in the IP packet. This allows the tunnel to traverse NAT devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * **UDP:** Tunnel data is encapsulated inside a UDP datagram. This allows the tunnel to traverse NAT more easily.
```

A UDP _header_ is the part of the UDP frame that contains source and destination ports — it doesn't contain any data (that's why it's called a header).

Author: Corrected.

      source-port 9000
      tunnel-id 200
  }

> To create more than one tunnel, use distinct UDP ports.

Reviewer: This example is quite small and general so I think we can keep it in the page rather than move it to the knowledge base.
